# bias-variance-demonstrator
A useful visualization for bias-variance

This is just a simple script that runs in jupyter notebooks (or jupyter labs) for demonstrating what bias and variance actually mean.  The docs folder links to a slideshow with the output images.  The reason why I made this script is because the graphics that I was given to learn from were dangerously ambiguous.  They showed darts scattered around a dartboard or points scattered across a distribution.  Call me crazy but if I see a bunch of darts or bulletholes or points, I'm going to assume that it's a graph of a function output.  THIS.  IS.  DEAD.  WRONG.

Let me explain what bias-variance is about twice, the first time with technical language, the second time with less technical language.

More technical) Bias and Variance are about the COEFFICIENTS of a regression.  And this is the rare instance where it's easier to think about a multi-variable regression then a single-variable regression.  When you run a regression on a sample, you get coefficients based on that sample.  If you get a new sample, you will get new coefficients from the same model.  Bias-variance is about those coefficients.  If Bias is high, these coefficients are inaccurate.  If variance is high, they are accurate but too widely distributed.

Less technical) An example is helpful here.  Suppose you have a voter registry and are trying to figure out which ones are going to vote in an election.  You can look up who voted in the last election, making a sample.  Then you need information about them to feed into a computer.  For instance older voters are more likely to vote so you look up their ages and richer voters are more likely to vote so you look up their incomes.  The computer will give you an estimate for how much each variable matters.  But if you repeat this process, get a new set of voters, the computer will give you another estimate and it's going to be different from the first.  Bias and variance is about how much the computer estimates these various pieces of information matter.  If the estimates aren't accurate but always inaccurate in the same way, that means the information you are feeding into the computer isn't complete or is flawed.  This is called biased.  If your computer produces estimates that change dramatically between samples, your process is high variance.
